In order to recap what we did in the last lesson, it's important to trace the runtime and see exactly
what's happening behind the scenes.
And so what I'm going to do is just start by running the application and debug mode.
Apply some breakpoints to the application.
I will apply them everywhere.
And it might actually apply some in the sectors as well.
Set.
Score.
Subject.
Set name.
And.
It might be worthwhile adding one in the empty constructor as well.
We'll just put a random print statement for now.
All right.
So now, starting from the very top, I'll make a get request on local host 8080.
The first breakpoint hits and the request maps to the handler method get form.
The handler method starts by creating a grade object, obviously using the empty constructor.
Now the model has data and you can drill into it and you'll notice a key value pair.
The string grade is the key and the value that it maps to is an MT grade object.
As the handler method returns the form template, it's going to send over the model data to the form
that HTML.
The form element is going to look inside the model and it binds to the MT grade object.
Family field selects a field from the previously bound object.
And what family field is going to do is bind every single form input to a field in the model object.
So it follows that because all of the fields in this object are empty, all of the inputs in the form
are going to be empty as well.
We get exactly that.
And now when we submit the form, I will submit data for Harry.
A post request is going to be made and it's going to carry all of that data to the back end.
Now what's the first thing that will get executed?
The empty constructor.
Weird will remember when a post request is made.
The handler method submit form is going to receive it and the first thing it's going to do is create
an empty grade object using your empty constructor.
You can see it happening in real time.
And if I continue.
This is a parameter from the post request and Spring Boot is smart enough to use your public setter
to update your field with a parameter from the post request.
So it's going to update the name field.
The score is a parameter from the post request.
It's going to update the score field.
And it's going to update the subject with the subject parameter from the post request.
That's really cool.
So after we've created that grade and updated it with values, we can add it to the data store student
grades.
And then this is going to prompt the client to make another get request on slash grades.
So where do you think the next breakpoint is going to hit?
There you go.
So the client made a get request on slash grades and the handler method received it.
Here we have the array list that's populated with our data.
We're adding it as a model attribute and before actually returning the grades, template grades is going
to receive this array list of grade objects.
There is only one grade object, so it's just going to generate one row of data.
So if I go back and press next.
That's just beautiful.
So now compare the process that you just saw to the diagram that we talked about in the previous video.
I'll leave it here to play.